| title | date |
|---|---|
| Programs, Products, and Systems | 08/26/2022 10:21 |

[Project Size](1661478052.md) need not only be measured in lines of code. Code Complete
(also defined The Mythical Man-Month, and probably originating from another resource altogether) 
distinguishes Programs, Products, and Systems. 

**Programs** are usually authored by one person to be used informally by themselves or a few other
people/developers.

**Products** are more formal, and are intended to be used by many other developers and or consumers.

**Systems** are the composite of multiple software products working in tandem.

Products and Systems require more non-construction efforts, especially efforts pertaining to communication.
They also require stricter methodologies to that end. Products are roughly three times as costly as a program of
similar size and systems around nine nimes as costly as a program of similar size.

_The Mythical Man-Month_ also describes this relationship of cost to project category using a visual:

| A Program | A Programming System |
| --- | --- |
| **A Programming Product** | **A Programming Systems Product** |

Starting in the top left quadrant "A Program", crossing any boundary multiplies the cost/effort of your project
by three. So you can have a programming product or a programming system for three times the cost of a mere program,
or a programming systems product for nine times the cost.

### References
- _Code Complete 2nd Edition, Steve McConnell_
- _The Mythical Man-Month, Frederick Brooks Jr._
