| title | date |
|---|---|
| Optimism in Software Estimates due to tractability | 08/29/2022 22:25 |

One of the most challenging (and often failed) tasks in software development for 
[projects of considerable size](1661478052.md) is estimating development time. 
_The Mythical Man-Month_ corroborates my experience in this area in stating that
projects timelines are almost always underestimated. (This is also corroborated by
_Code Complete_ in '28.3 Estimating a Construction Schedule', which references 
_Standish Group 1994, Jones 1997, Johnson 1999_ in saying that 'The average large
software project is one year late and 100 percent over budget')

The author's argument is compelling: Software Development, unlike some other engineering
disciplines, is uniquely tractable. Whereas the construction of buildings or bridges has 
apparent intractable and physical obstacles that are accounted for in project time estimates,
software solutions are very tractable, thus we underestimate their implementation. 

I'll also include the direct quote here since I think it's best stated in the book and not 
my own words:

_"Computer programming, however, creates with an exceedingly tractable medium. 
The programmer builds from pure thought-stuff: concepts and very flexible representations thereof. 
Because the medium is tractable, we expect few difficulties in implementation; hence our pervasive 
optimism. Because our ideas are faulty, we have bugs; hence our optimism is unjustified."_

This optimisim is one contributor to our tendency to underestimate software timelines, but I think 
the categorization of [different kinds of projects and their respective costs due to aspects of 
development other than code construction](1661523680.md) are also likely contributors.

### References
- _Code Complete 2nd Edition, Steve McConnell_
- _The Mythical Man-Month, Frederick Brooks Jr._
