| title | date |
|---|---|
| Goroutines vs Threads | 02/14/2023 01:22 |

There are a few key differences between goroutines and OS threads. 

1. **Stack Size** - OS threads have a fixed stack size (up to 2MB), but the
stack size for a goroutine may grow or shrink depending on the demands of the 
program. Goroutine stacks start at 2KB but may increase to be up to 1GB.

2. **Scheduling** - OS threads are scheduled by the OS kernel. The scheduler is
intermittently invoked. This stops the executing thread, saves its registers in
memory, determines which thread should execute (context switching, if necessary)
then restores that threads registers from memory before continuing execution.
By contrast, goroutines are scheduled by the go runtime's scheduler, which makes
decisions about which goroutine to execute based on language constructs (sleeps,
waits, channel receives etc.). Switching between goroutines is much more efficient
than OS thread level context switching. 

3. **Identity** - Historically multithreaded programming involves knowing the
identity of each spawned thread (e.g. pthread ids in c), and this can sometimes
lead to thread-local storage, where particular threads are assigned specific
responsibilities that entails them accessing some particular global data. By
design, goroutines have no identity. This encourages passing arguments to spawned
goroutine functions instead of using their identity and global data, according
to the go authors. 

### References
_The Go Programming Language, Alan A.A. Donovan, Brian W. Kernighan_
